---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---


<p><h2>Exoplanets &amp; Planet formation theory </h2><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Cumming, A.; Lin, D. N. C.&nbsp;2022. The effect of late giant collisions on the atmospheres<br>of protoplanets and the formation of cold sub-Saturns. MNRAS Volume 509, Issue 1, pp.1413-1431<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Cumming, A.; Lin, D. N. C.&nbsp;2021.&nbsp;The Imprint of the Protoplanetary Disk in the<br>Accretion of Super-Earth Envelopes. MNRAS Volume 494, Issue 2, pp.2440-2448<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>&nbsp;&amp; Petrovich, C.&nbsp;2020. Constraining protoplanetary discs with exoplanetary dynamics:<br>Kepler-419 as an example. MNRAS Volume 499, Issue 1, pp.106-115<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, &amp; Thompson., C.&nbsp;2019.&nbsp;Limit to Protoplanet Growth by Accretion of Small Solids.<br>ApJ Volume 900, Issue 2, id.96, 24 pp.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Lakhlani, G.&nbsp;2018a.&nbsp;Possible formation pathways for the low density Neptune-mass<br>planet HAT-P-26b.&nbsp;MNRAS Volume 473, issue 1, pp. 1325-1331.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Johansen, A., Huang, C. X.&nbsp;2017c.&nbsp;The origin of the occurrence rate profile of gas<br>giants inside 100 d . MNRAS, Volume 464, Issue 4, p.4282-4298<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b> 2017b. Disentangling Hot Jupiters formation location from their chemical composition.<br>MNRAS, Volume 467, Issue 4, p.2845-2854<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b> 2017a. A pebbles accretion model with chemistry and implications for the solar system.<br>MNRAS, Volume 464, Issue 4, p.4282-4298<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Martin, R. G., Petit, J.-M., Mousis, O., Vernazza, P., Lunine, J. I.&nbsp;2015. Nebular dead<br>zone effects on the D/H ratio in chondrites and comets. A&amp;A 583, A58.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Mousis, O., Petit, J.-M., Lunine, J. I.&nbsp;2014b. Carbon-rich Planet Formation in a Solar<br>Composition Disk. ApJ 785, 125.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Mousis, O., Pekmezci, G. S., Lunine, J. I., Madhusudhan, N., Petit, J.-M.&nbsp;2014a.<br>Influence of the C/O ratio on titanium and vanadium oxides in protoplanetary disks. A&amp;A 561, A60.<br><br>Peterson, M. , Benneke, B., Collins, K., Crossfield, I., Piaulet, C.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, et al.&nbsp;2022. <br> Atemperate Earth-sized planet with tidally-heated interior transiting an M6 star.&nbsp;Nature, accepted<br>(under embargo).<br><br>Petrovich, C.; Wu, Y.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, 2019.&nbsp;Secular Transport during Disk Dispersal: The Case of<br>Kepler-419.&nbsp;AJ, V157, Issue 1, article id. 5, 13 pp.<br><br>Jackson, A. P., Tamayo, D., Hammond, N.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, and Rein, H.&nbsp;2018.&nbsp;Ejection of rocky and<br>icy material from binary star systems: implications for the origin and composition of 1I/&lsquo;Oumuamua.<br>MNRAS V478, Issue 1, p.L49-L53<br><br>Mousis, O.; Lunine, J. I.; Luspay-Kuti, A.; Guillot, T.; Marty, B.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, and 7 colleagues&nbsp;2016.<br>A Protosolar Nebula Origin for the Ices Agglomerated by Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko. ApJ<br>819, L33.<br><br>Guilbert-Lepoutre, A., Besse, S., Mousis, O.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Hofner, S., Koschny, D., Hager, P.&nbsp;2015.<br>On the Evolution of Comets. Space Science Reviews 197, 271-296.<br><br>Willacy, K.; Alexander, C.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, and 12 colleagues&nbsp;2015. <br>The Composition of the Protosolar<br>Disk and the Formation Conditions for Comets. Space Science Reviews 197, 151-190.<br><br>Ellinger, Y., Pauzat, F., Mousis, O., Guilbert-Lepoutre, A., Leblanc, F.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Doronin, M.,<br>Zicler, E., Doressoundiram, A.&nbsp;2015. Neutral Na in Cometary Tails as a Remnant of Early Aqueous<br>Alteration. ApJ 801, L30.<br><br>Mousis, O., and 50 colleagues&nbsp;2014. Scientific rationale for Saturn&rsquo;s in situ exploration. Planetary and<br>Space Science 104, 29-47.<br><br>Mousis, O., Lunine, J. I., Fletcher, L. N., Mandt, K. E.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Gautier, D., Atreya, S.&nbsp;2014.<br>New Insights on Saturn&rsquo;s Formation from its Nitrogen Isotopic Composition. ApJ 796, L28.&nbsp;</p>
<div>Pauzat, F., Ellinger, Y., Mousis, O.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Ozgurel, O.&nbsp;2013. Gas-phase Sequestration of Noble<br>Gases in the Protosolar Nebula: Possible Consequences on the Outer Solar System Composition. ApJ<br>777, 29.<br><h2>Solar System</h2><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Marsset, M., Wong, M., Dbouk, R.;&nbsp;2021.&nbsp;The Rarity of Very Red Trans-Neptunian<br>Objects in the Scattered Disk.&nbsp;The Astronomical Journal, Volume 162, Issue 1, id.19, 20 pp.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Lakhlani, G.&nbsp;2018b.&nbsp;What is Neptune&rsquo;s D/H ratio really telling us about its water<br>abundance?&nbsp;MNRAS, Volume 476, Issue 1, p.1169-1173.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Mousis, O., Petit, J.-M., Lunine, J. I.&nbsp;2014c. The Measured Compositions of Uranus<br>and Neptune from their Formation on the CO Ice Line. ApJ 793, 9.<br><br>Lellouch, E.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Jessup, K.-L., Smette, A., K ̈aufl, H.-U., Marchis, F.&nbsp;2015. Detection and<br>characterization of Io&rsquo;s atmosphere from high-resolution 4-&mu;m spectroscopy. Icarus 253, 99-114.<br><br>Mousis, O.; Chassefi`ere, E.; Holm, N. G.; Bouquet, A.; Waite, J. H.; Geppert, W. D.; Picaud, S.;<br>Aikawa, Y.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>; , and 2 colleagues&nbsp;2015. Methane Clathrates in the Solar System. Astrobi-<br>ology 15, 308-326.<br><br>Mousis, O.; Hueso, R.; Beaulieu, J.-P.; Bouley, S.; Carry, B.; Colas, F.; Klotz, A.; Pellier, C.; Petit,<br>J.-M.; Rousselot, P.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, and 49 colleagues&nbsp;2014. Instrumental methods for professional<br>and amateur collaborations in planetary astronomy. Experimental Astronomy 38, 91-191.<br><h2>Machine Learning</h2><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, et al.,&nbsp;(2022). Constraining the turbulent power spectrum of Jupiter from Juno data<br>with machine learning. In preparation.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>,&nbsp;(2022).&nbsp;A machine-generated catalogue of Charon&rsquo;s craters and implications for the<br>Kuiper belt. Icarus, in revision.<br><br><b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Menou, Kristen; Zhu, Chenchong; Hammond, Noah; Jackson, Alan P.&nbsp;(2020). Auto-<br>mated crater shape retrieval using weakly-supervised deep learning.&nbsp;Icarus, Volume 345, article id.<br>113749. arXiv.<br><br>Maccio, A. V.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Vulanovic, P., Al Noori, H., Walter, F., Krieger, N., Buck, T.&nbsp;(2022).<br>Using Artificial Intelligence and real galaxy images to constrain parameters in galaxy formation sim-<br>ulations. MNRAS, in press. arXiv.<br><br>Silburt, A.,&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>, Zhu, C., Jackson, A. et al.&nbsp;(2019).&nbsp;Lunar Crater Identification via Deep<br>Learning.&nbsp;Icarus, Volume 317, p. 27-38 arXiv1.<br><br>Tamayo, D.; Silburt, A.; Valencia, D.; Menou, K.;&nbsp;<b>Ali-Dib, M.</b>; and 7 colleagues&nbsp;(2016). A Machine<br>Learns to Predict the Stability of Tightly Packed Planetary Systems. ApJ 832, L22. arXiv.<br><br><div><br></div>
</div>
<div>
    <section><br></section>
</div>


{% if author.googlescholar %}
  You can also find my articles on <u><a href="{{author.googlescholar}}">my Google Scholar profile</a>.</u>
{% endif %}

{% include base_path %}

{% for post in site.publications reversed %}
  {% include archive-single.html %}
{% endfor %}
